本章介绍LuatOS的i2c库使用方式
This chapter describes how to use the i2c library for LuatOS
初始化
Initialization
初始化硬件
Initialize hardware
代码如下
The code is as follows
当前湿度
Current humidity
当前温度
Current Temperature
等待测量完成
Wait for the measurement to complete
读出的数据需要通过如下公式进行转换
The read data needs to be converted by the following formula
读取温湿度数据
Read temperature and humidity data
发送测量命令
Send measurement command
发送指令给AHT10触发测量并读数
Send command to AHT10 to trigger measurement and reading
分离湿度数据
Separate humidity data
分离湿度数据 包含读取数据中的第2位，第3位以及第4位的高四位
The separated humidity data contains the second bit, the third bit and the high four bits of the fourth bit in the read data.
分离温度数据
Separation temperature data
分离温度数据 包含读取数据中的第6位，第5位以及第4位的低四位
The separation temperature data includes the 6th bit, the 5th bit and the lower four bits of the 4th bit in the read data.
根据AHT10数据手册中5.3节可知，AHT10的触发测量命令为`0xac`，读取温湿度数据时从机共返回6个字节，第一个字节为从机状态，后5个字节为温湿度信息，主机和从机的数据传输图如下
According to section 5.3 in the AHT10 data manual, the trigger measurement command of AHT10 is` 0xac`. when reading temperature and humidity data, the slave machine returns a total of 6 bytes, the first byte is the slave machine status, and the last 5 bytes are temperature and humidity information. the data transmission diagram of the master machine and the slave machine is as follows
函数返回值与初始化时的i2c速度一致代表初始化成功
The return value of the function is consistent with the i2c speed at the time of initialization, which means the initialization is successful.
简介
Introduction
接口文档可参考：[i2c库
Interface documentation can be referred to:[i2c library
接线示意
Wiring Schematic
开发板
Development Board
库提供LuatOS与使用i2c协议外设的通讯
Library provides communication between LuatOS and peripherals using the i2c protocol
日志如下
The log is as follows
软件部分
Software part
是一款温湿度传感器，使用I2C通信协议，7位i2c设备地址为
Is a temperature and humidity sensor, using I2C communication protocol, 7 i2c device address is
完整代码如下
The complete code is as follows
位地址
bit address
硬件
Hardware
硬件准备
Hardware preparation
有1路i2c控制器
There is 1 channel i2c controller
注意AHT10在采集时需要时间,主机发出测量指令`0xAC`后，延时75毫秒以上再读取转换后的数据
Note that AHT10 needs time during acquisition. After the host sends out the measurement instruction `0xAC`, the converted data will be read with a delay of more than 75 milliseconds.
转换温湿度结果
Converting Temperature and Humidity Results
总线是由Philips公司开发的一种简单、双向二线制同步串行总线。它只需要两根线即可在连接于总线上的器件之间传送信息。
The bus is a simple, bidirectional two-wire synchronous serial bus developed by Philips. It requires only two wires to transfer information between devices connected to the bus.
