不指定录音文件路径时，单次录音回调时长，单位是100ms。默认1，既
If the recording file path is not specified, the callback duration of a single recording is 100ms. Default 1, both
休眠控制(一般会自动调用不需要手动执行
Sleep control (usually called automatically without manual execution
休眠模式
Sleep mode
传入值类型|解释
Incoming Value Type | Explanation
例如
For example
例子
Examples
停止指定的多媒体通道
Stop the specified multimedia channel
停止播放文件，和audio.play(id)是一样的作用
Stop playing the file, which is the same as audio.play(id).
停止播放某个文件
Stop playing a file
写0, audio 1写
Write 0, write audio 1
参数
Parameters
启动一个多媒体通道准备播放音频
Start a multimedia channel ready to play audio
回调函数传入参数的值，表示底层播放完一段数据，可以传入更多数据
The value of the parameter passed in the callback function, indicating that after a piece of data is played at the bottom layer, more data can be passed in.
回调函数传入参数的值，表示底层播放完全部数据了
The value of the parameter passed in by the callback function indicates that the bottom layer has played all the data.
回调函数传入参数的值，表示录音完成
The value of the parameter passed in the callback function, indicating that the recording is complete.
回调函数传入参数的值，表示录音数据
The value of the parameter passed in the callback function, which represents the recording data.
回调方法，回调时传入参数为1、int 通道ID 2、int 消息值，只有audio.MORE_DATA和
callback method, the parameters passed in during callback are 1, int channel ID 2, int message value, only audio.MORE_DATA and
在DAC启动前插入的冗余时间，单位100ms，一般用于外部
Redundancy time inserted before DAC startup, in 100ms, typically for external
在DAC启动后，延迟多长时间打开PA，单位
How long is the delay in turning on the PA after the DAC is started, unit
声音通道数
Number of sound channels
外部dac打开时，电源控制IO的电平，默认拉高
When the external dac is turned on, the power control IO level is pulled high by default
外部dac电源控制IO，如果不填，则表示使用平台默认IO，比如Air780E使用DACEN脚，air105则不启用
The external dac power supply controls IO. If it is not filled in, it means that the platform default IO is used. For example, Air780E uses DACEN pin, air105 is not enabled.
多媒体-音频
Multimedia-Audio
多媒体播放通道号
Multimedia playback channel number
多媒体播放通道号，0或者
Multimedia playback channel number, 0 or
如果播放失败，是否是用户停止，true是，false不是
If playback fails, whether the user stops, true is, false is not
已适配
Adapted
常量
Constant
常量|类型|解释
constant | type | explanation
开 false关
On false off
开始播放某个文件
Start playing a file
当前mic音量
Current mic volume
当前音量
Current Volume
录制时长 单位秒
Recording Duration Unit Seconds
录制时长 单位秒,可选，默认0即表示一直录制
Recording duration in seconds. Optional. The default value is 0.
录音
Recording
录音停止
Recording Stop
录音文件路径,可选,不指定则不保存,可在audio.on回调函数中处理原始PCM数据
The path of the recording file, which is optional. If it is not specified, it will not be saved. The original PCM data can be processed in the audio.on callback function.
录音文件音频格式,支持
Recording file audio format, support
录音音频格式,支持 audio.AMR audio.PCM (部分平台支持
Recording audio format, supporting audio.AMR audio.PCM (some platforms support
往一个多媒体通道写入音频数据
Write audio data to a multimedia channel
总线类型, 例如
Bus type, such
恢复通道
Recovery channel
成功
Success
成功true, 失败
Success true, failure
成功返回true,否则返回
Returns true on success, otherwise
打开时的电平
Level when on
控制
Control
控制脚是GPIO25，高电平打开，Air780E云喇叭板用这个配置就可以用了
The control pin is GPIO25, the high level is turned on, and the Air780E cloud horn board can be used with this configuration.
控制脚是PC0，高电平打开，air105用这个配置就可以用了
The control pin is PC0, the high level is turned on, air105 can be used with this configuration
播放或者停止
Play or stop
播放或者停止播放一个文件，播放完成后，会回调一个audio.DONE消息，可以用pause来暂停或者恢复，其他API不可用。考虑到读SD卡速度比较慢而拖累luavm进程的速度，所以尽量使用本
Play or stop playing a file. After the play is completed, an audio.DONE message will be called back. pause can be used to pause or resume. Other API is not available. Considering the slow speed of reading SD card and slowing down the speed of luavm process, try to use this
文件名，如果为空，则表示停止播放，如果是table，则表示连续播放多个文件，主要应用于云喇叭，目前只有EC618支持，并且会用到errStop参数
The file name. If it is empty, the playback is stopped. If it is table, multiple files are played continuously. It is mainly used for cloud speakers. Currently, only EC618 is supported and errStop parameters are used.
无
None
无返回值
No return value
是否全部播放成功，true成功，false有文件播放失败
Whether all files are played successfully, true successfully, false
是否在文件解码失败后停止解码，只有在连续播放多个文件时才有用，默认true，遇到解码错误自动停止
Indicates whether to stop decoding after a file fails to be decoded. This is only useful when multiple files are played continuously. The default value is true. If a decoding error occurs, the decoding is automatically stopped.
是否有符号，默认
Symbols, default
暂停，false 恢复
Pause, false resume
暂停/恢复指定的多媒体通道
Pause/resume specified multimedia channel
暂停通道
Pause channel
本库有专属demo，[点此链接查看audio的demo例子
This library has its own demo,[click this link to view audio's demo example
本页文档由[这个文件](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/../components/multimedia/luat_lib_multimedia_audio.c)自动生成。如有错误，请提交issue或帮忙修改后pr，谢谢
This page document is automatically generated by [this file](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/../components/multimedia/luat_lib_multimedia_audio.c). If there is any error, please submit issue or help modify pr, thank you
格式
Format
格式，即原始ADC数据
format, I .e. raw ADC data
检查当前文件是否已经播放结束
Check whether the current file has finished playing
模式 关断模式
MODE OFF MODE
模式 关机模式，PA断电，可配置的codec关机状态，不可配置的codec断电，系统能进低功耗状态
Mode shutdown mode, PA power off, configurable codec power off state, unconfigurable codec power off, system can enter low power consumption state
模式 工作模式
Mode Working Mode
模式 待机模式
Mode Standby Mode
模式 待机模式，PA断电，codec待机状态，系统不能进低功耗状态，如果PA不可控，codec进入静音模式
Mode standby mode, PA power off, codec standby state, system cannot enter low power consumption state, if PA is not controllable, codec enters silent mode
模式 断电模式，PA断电，codec断电，系统能进低功耗状态
Mode power-off mode, PA power-off, codec power-off, system can enter low power consumption state
注册audio播放事件回调
Register audio playback event callback
硬件id, 例如 总线类型为audio.BUS_I2S时,硬件id即为i2s codec的
Hardware id, for example, when the bus type is audio.BUS_I2S, the hardware id is
硬件输出总线，DAC类型
Hardware output bus, DAC type
硬件输出总线，I2S类型
Hardware output bus, I2S type
硬件输出总线，软件模式DAC类型
Hardware output bus, software mode DAC type
第几个文件失败了，从1开始
The first file failed, starting from 1
获取最近一次播放结果，不是所有平台都支持的，目前只有EC618支持
Get the latest playback result. Not all platforms support it. Currently, only EC618 supports it.
质量,audio.AMR下有效
Quality, effective under audio.AMR
返回值
Return Value
返回值类型|解释
return value type | explanation
通道0的硬件输出通道设置为
The hardware output channel for channel 0 is set
通道0的硬件输出通道设置为软件
Hardware output channel for channel 0 is set to software
通道0的音量调节到90%，result存放了调节后的音量水平，有可能仍然是
The volume of channel 0 is adjusted to 90%,result stores the adjusted volume level, which may still be
配置一个音频通道的mic音量调节
configure mic volume adjustment for an audio channel
配置一个音频通道的特性，比如实现自动控制PA开关。注意这个不是必须的，一般在调用play的时候才需要自动控制，其他情况比如你手动控制播放时，就可以自己控制PA开关
Configure the characteristics of an audio channel, such as automatically controlling the PA switch. Note that this is not necessary. Generally, automatic control is only required when play is called. In other cases, for example, when you manually control the play, you can control the PA switch yourself.
配置一个音频通道的硬件输出总线，只有对应soc软硬件平台支持才设置对应类型
Configure the hardware output bus of an audio channel, and set the corresponding type only if the corresponding SOC software and hardware platform supports it.
配置一个音频通道的音量调节，直接将原始数据放大或者缩小，不是所有平台都支持，建议尽量用硬件方法去缩放
Configure the volume adjustment of an audio channel to directly enlarge or reduce the original data. Not all platforms support it. It is recommended to use hardware methods to zoom
配置调试信息输出
Configuring Debug Information Output
采样位数
Number of sampling bits
采样频率
Sampling frequency
需要播放的内容
Content that needs to be played
音量，百分比，1%~100%，默认100%，就是不调节
Volume, percentage, 1% ~ 100, default 100, is not adjusted
音量，百分比，1%~1000%，默认100%，就是不调节
Volume, percentage, 1% ~ 1000, default 100, is not adjusted
音频播放完毕时，PA与DAC关闭的时间间隔，单位1ms，默认
When audio playback is completed, the time interval between PA and DAC is turned off, in 1ms, default
音频数据
Audio Data
音频格式
Audio Format
音频通道
Audio Channel
音频通道,例如
Audio channels, such