上升沿触发
Rising edge trigger
上拉
Pull-up
上拉下列模式, 可以是gpio.PULLUP 或 gpio.PULLDOWN, 或者 0. 需要根据实际硬件选用
Pull up the following modes, which can be gpio.PULLUP or gpio.PULLDOWN, or 0. to be selected according to the actual hardware
上拉下列模式, 可以是gpio.PULLUP 或 gpio.PULLDOWN, 需要根据实际硬件选用
The following pull-up mode can be gpio.PULLUP or gpio.PULLDOWN, which needs to be selected according to the actual hardware
下拉
Drop-down
下降沿触发
Falling edge trigger
中断回调的val参数不代表触发方向, 仅代表中断后某个时间点的电平
The val parameter of the interrupt callback does not represent the trigger direction, but only represents the level at a certain point in time after the interrupt.
中断触发模式,默认gpio.BOTH。中断触发模式<br>上升沿gpio.RISING<br>下降沿gpio.FALLING<br>上升和下降都触发
Interrupt trigger mode, default gpio.BOTH. interrupt triggering mode <br> rising edge gpio.RISING<br> falling edge gpio.FALLING<br> both rising and falling are triggered
于2023.7.2新增
Added in 2023.7.2
以下示例代码, 将I2S_DOUT复用成
The following sample code reuses the I2S_DOUT
传值正确返回true,否则返回
If the pass value is correct, return true, otherwise return
传入值类型|解释
Incoming Value Type | Explanation
低电平
Low level
低电平触发,部分设备支持
Low-level trigger, some devices support
例如
For example
例子
Examples
假设GPIO16上有LED, 每500ms切换一次开关
Assuming there are LEDs on GPIO16, switch every 500ms
关闭
Close
关闭管脚功能(高阻输入态),关掉中断
Turn off the pin function (high impedance input state), turn off the interrupt
关闭防抖,时间设置为0就关闭
Turn off anti-shake, and turn off when the time is set to 0.
参数
Parameters
参数的额外说明, 上拉/下拉配置
Additional description of parameters, pull-up/pull-down configuration
双向触发,部分设备支持
Two-way trigger, some devices support
变换GPIO脚输出电平,仅输出模式可用
Transform GPIO pin output level, only output mode available
号
No.
号, 0~127, 与硬件相关
Number, 0~127, related to hardware
在同一个GPIO输出一组脉冲, 注意, len的单位是bit, 高位在前
Output a set of pulses at the same GPIO. Note that len's unit is bit, with the high bit first.
复用选项，目前只有EC618平台需要这个参数，有些GPIO可以复用到不同引脚上，可以选择复用选项（0或者4）从而复用到对应的引脚上
Multiplexing option, currently only EC618 platform needs this parameter, some GPIO can be multiplexed to different pins, you can select the multiplexing option (0 or 4) to multiplex to the corresponding pin
完成捕获后的回调函数，仅一个参数，参数为捕获到的时间长度number型数值，单位
The callback function after the capture is completed. There is only one parameter. The parameter is the number-type value of the captured time length, in units.
对Cat.1模块,通常只有AONGPIO才能双向触发, 其他GPIO只能单向触发
Yeah, Cat. 1 module, usually only AONGPIO can be triggered in both directions, and other GPIO can only be triggered in one direction
对于支持开漏的bsp, pull参数要传 0 才能开启开漏模式, 不是传
For bsp that supports open drain, the pull parameter must be passed to 0 to open drain mode, not pass
对于部分的BSP来说, 只支持 gpio.PULLUP 或 gpio.PULLDOWN, 但有部分BSP支持开漏模式
For some BSPs, only gpio.PULLUP or gpio.PULLDOWN is supported, but some BSPs support open-drain mode.
对应的,如果输入的是一个 50hz的方波,那么不会触发任何上报
Correspondingly, if the input is a 50hz square wave, then no report will be triggered.
已适配
Adapted
常量
Constant
常量|类型|解释
constant | type | explanation
平台自定义,1上拉, 2下拉
Platform customization, 1 pull-up, 2 pull-down
延迟,当前无固定时间单位
Delay, currently no fixed time unit
开启防抖, 模式0-冷却, 中断后马上上报, 但100ms内只上报一次
Turn on anti-shake, mode 0-cooling, report immediately after interruption, but report only once within 100ms
开启防抖, 模式1-延时, 中断后等待100ms,期间若保持该电平了,时间到之后上报一次
Turn on anti-shake, mode 1-delay, wait for 100ms after interruption, if the level is maintained during the period, report once after the time is up
当管脚为输入模式或中断,才能通过gpio.get()获取到电平
When the pin is in input mode or interrupt, the level can be obtained through gpio.get()
当管脚为输出模式,才能通过gpio.set()设置电平
When the pin is in output mode, the level can be set through gpio.set()
当管脚为输出模式,通过gpio.get()总会得到
When the pin is in output mode, you will always get it through gpio.get().
捕获pin.PA07为高电平的持续时间
Capture the duration when pin.PA07 is high
捕获管脚电平持续时长，单位
Capture Pin Level Duration, Unit
提醒
Reminder
提醒, val并不代表触发方向, 仅代表中断后某个时间点的电平
Reminder, val does not represent the trigger direction, only the level at a certain point in time after the interruption
操作
Operation
数值或者字符串
Value or string
方向输出,且初始化电平为低,使用硬件默认上下拉配置
Direction output, and initialization level is low, using hardware default pull-down configuration
无效引脚,一般用于告诉底层某功能引脚不指定
Invalid pin, generally used to tell the bottom of a function pin is not specified
无返回值
No return value
无返回值,总是执行成功
No return value, always successful execution
本API于 2022.05.17 添加
This API was added on 2022.05.17
本功能仅对部分平台有效, 且仅用于调整GPIO复用,其他复用方式请使用muc.iomux函数
This function is only valid for some platforms and is only used to adjust GPIO multiplexing. For other multiplexing methods, please use the mu c.iomux function
本库有专属demo，[点此链接查看gpio的demo例子
This library has its own demo,[click this link to view the demo example of gpio
本库还有视频教程，[点此链接查看
There are also video tutorials in this library, [click this link to view
本页文档由[这个文件](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/modules/luat_lib_gpio.c)自动生成。如有错误，请提交issue或帮忙修改后pr，谢谢
This page document is automatically generated by [this file](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/modules/luat_lib_gpio.c). If there is any error, please submit issue or help modify pr, thank you
模式, 0冷却模式, 1延时模式. 默认是
mode, 0 cooling mode, 1 delay mode. Default is
消抖模式, 当前支持2种, 2022.12.16开始支持
Shake elimination mode, currently supports 2 types, starting on 2022.12.16
电平, 可以是 高电平gpio.HIGH, 低电平gpio.LOW, 或者直接写数值1或
Level, which can be high level gpio.HIGH, low level gpio.LOW, or directly write the value 1 or
电平, 高电平gpio.HIGH, 低电平gpio.LOW, 对应数值1和
Level, high level gpio.HIGH, low level gpio.LOW, corresponding to value 1 and
的PIN33(模块管脚序号), 对应paddr 38, 默认功能是I2S_DOUT, 复用成
PIN33 (module pin number), corresponding to paddr 38, the default function is I2S_DOUT, multiplexed
管脚的GPIO号
GPIO number of the pin
系列
Series
系列(Air780E/Air780EG/Air780EX/Air700E等
Series (Air780E/Air780EG/Air780EX/Air700E, etc.
系列(Air780EP/Air780EPV等
Series (Air780EP/Air780EPV, etc.
系列的GPIO复用请查阅 https://air780e.cn 首页硬件资料表格中的
For GPIO multiplexing of the series, please refer to the hardware data table on the https://air780e.cn homepage.
系列的GPIO复用请查阅 https://air780ep.cn 首页硬件资料表格中的
For GPIO multiplexing of the series, please refer to the hardware data table on the https://air780ep.cn homepage.
编号,必须是数值
Number, must be numeric
若芯片支持pin库, 可用pin.PA7代替数字
If the chip supports pin library, pin.PA7 can be used instead of numbers.
获取gpio17的当前电平
Get the current level of gpio17.
获取管脚电平
Get Pin Level
触发中断后,延迟N个毫秒,期间没有新中断且电平没有变化,上报一次
After triggering the interrupt, delay N milliseconds, during which there is no new interrupt and no level change, report once
触发中断后,马上上报一次, 然后冷却N个毫秒后,重新接受中断
After the interrupt is triggered, report it once immediately, and then accept the interrupt again after cooling for N milliseconds.
设置AIR780E的PIN33复用成gpio18，方向输出,且初始化电平为低,使用硬件默认上下拉配置
Set the AIR780E PIN33 to be multiplexed into gpio18, the direction output, and the initialization level is low, using the hardware default pull-up configuration
设置gpio.setup的pull默认值为上拉
Set the pull default value of gpio.setup to pull up
设置gpio17为低电平
Set gpio17 to low
设置gpio17为输入
Set gpio17 as input
设置gpio17为输出,且初始化电平为低,使用硬件默认上下拉配置
Set gpio17 to output, and the initialization level is low, using the hardware default pull-up configuration
设置gpio17为输出,且初始化电平为高,且启用内部上拉
Set gpio17 to output, initialize level high, and enable internal pull-up
设置gpio27为中断
Set gpio27 to interrupt
设置gpio27为中断, 仅上升沿触发
Set gpio27 to interrupt, rising edge only trigger
设置gpio27为中断, 默认双向触发
Set gpio27 to interrupt, default two-way trigger
设置GPIO脚的默认上拉/下拉设置, 默认是平台自定义(一般为开漏
Set the default pull-up/pull-down setting of GPIO pin, the default is platform customization (generally open and leak
设置管脚功能
Set Pin Function
设置管脚电平
Set Pin Level
输入输出模式：<br>数字0/1代表输出模式<br>nil代表输入模式<br>function代表中断模式
Input and output mode:<br> Number 0/1 represents output mode <br>nil represents input mode <br>function represents interrupt mode
输出模式返回设置电平的闭包, 输入模式和中断模式返回获取电平的闭包
Output mode returns the closure of the set level, input mode and interrupt mode returns the closure of the acquired level
返回值
Return Value
返回值类型|解释
return value type | explanation
返回获取电平的闭包
Returns the closure of the acquisition level
通过PB06脚输出输出8个电平变化
Through the PB06 pin output output 8 level changes
长度 单位是bit, 高位在前
The unit of length is bit, with the high bit in front.
防抖时长,单位毫秒, 最大 65555 ms, 设置为0则关闭
Anti-shake duration, in milliseconds, with a maximum of 65555 ms. If it is set to 0, it is turned off.
防抖设置, 根据硬件ticks进行防抖
Anti-shake settings, anti-shake according to hardware ticks
需要捕获的电平, 可以是 高电平gpio.HIGH, 低电平gpio.LOW, 或者直接写数值1或0，即管脚上正常时间处于level的反，捕获设定的level持续时间
The level to be captured can be high level gpio.HIGH, low level gpio.LOW, or directly write the value 1 or 0, I .e. the normal time on the pin is opposite to level, capturing the set level duration
高电平
High Level
高电平触发,部分设备支持
High level trigger, some devices support
默认设置下,中断是没有防抖时间的,可以通过gpio.set_debounce(pin, 50)来设置防抖时间
By default, there is no anti-shake time for interruption, and the anti-shake time can be set through gpio.set_debounce(pin, 50)