一般用途的唯一id, 可以用mobile.imei()代替
A unique id for general purposes, which can be replaced with mobile.imei()
上行流量
Upstream traffic
上行流量值
Upstream traffic value
下行流量
Downstream traffic
下行流量值
Downstream traffic value
下行频点
Downlink frequency point
不推荐使用本API判断联网状态, 建议使用socket.localIP()来判断
It is not recommend to use this API to judge the networking status. It is recommended to use socket.localIP() to judge
与基站无数据交互3秒后提前释放
No data interaction with the base station 3 seconds after the early release
专网卡设置的demo，name，user，password联系卡商获取
The demo,name,user, set by the special network card, password contact the card dealer to obtain
串口号
Serial port number
仅SMS可用
Only SMS available
仅SMS可用,且漫游状态
Only SMS available and roaming status
仅紧急呼叫. 注意, 国内不支持此状态,模块也不支持紧急呼叫
Emergency calls only. Note that this state is not supported domestically and the module does not support emergency calls
仅记录开机后的流量,复位/重启会归零
Only record the traffic after startup, reset/restart will return to zero
传入值类型|解释
Incoming Value Type | Explanation
伪基站禁止接入的时间，取值为0时取消，0xffff永久
The time when the pseudo base station is prohibited from accessing, which is canceled when the value is 0, and 0xffff is permanent.
使用内置虚拟卡
Using the built-in virtual card
使用外置实体卡
Using an external physical card
使能PIN码验证
enable PIN verification
例子
Examples
值,若失败返回
Value to return if failure
关闭PIN码验证
Turn off PIN verification
关闭基站同步时间
Off Base Station Sync Time
关闭测试模式
Close Test Mode
关闭统计
Close Statistics
关闭邻区测量 1关，0开，除了功耗测试外不建议使用
Turn off the adjacent area measurement 1 off, 0 on, except for power consumption test is not recommended
写入次数的配置和读取
Configure and read the number of writes
切换内置虚拟卡和外置实体卡，2024年8月13日启用，虚拟卡需要固件支持，否则切换后无网络，需要在飞行模式下切换，或者切换后重启协议栈
Switching between the built-in virtual card and the external physical card will be enabled on August 13, 2024. The virtual card needs firmware support. Otherwise, there is no network after switching, and the protocol stack needs to be switched in flight mode or restarted after switching.
初始化内置默认虚拟卡功能，2024年8月13日启用，需要固件支持
Initialize the built-in default virtual card function, enabled on August 13, 2024, requires firmware support
删除已保存的协议栈参数，重启后会使用默认配置
Delete the saved protocol stack parameters and use the default configuration after restart.
包含基站数据的数组
Array containing base station data
卡的编号, 例如0, 1, 如果支持双卡，比如EC618，可以填2来自适应，但是会占用掉4个IO(gpio4/5/6/23)。如果不填就直接读取当前卡槽
The number of the card, such as 0,1, if you support dual cards, such as EC618, you can fill in 2 for adaptation, but it will take up 4 IO(gpio4/5/6/23). If you don't fill it in, read the current card slot directly.
卡的编号, 例如0, 1, 支持双卡双待的才需要选择
The number of the card, such as 0,1, only those who support dual cards and dual standby need to select
卡的编号, 例如0, 1, 默认
Card number, for example 0, 1, default
卡自动恢复时间，单位毫秒，建议5000~10000，和飞行模式/SIM卡切换冲突，不能再同一时间使用，必须错开执行。写0或者不写则是关闭功能
Card automatic recovery time, in milliseconds, recommended 5000~10000, conflicts with flight mode/SIM card switching, cannot be used at the same time, must be staggered. To write 0 or not to write is to turn off the function
原飞行模式的状态
Status of original flight mode
参数
Parameters
参考 mobile.getCellInfo 函数
Reference mobile.getCellInfo function
发起基站信息查询,含临近小区
Initiate base station information query, including adjacent cells
启用数据传输优化，与基站无数据交互3秒后，提前释放
Enable data transmission optimization, no data interaction with the base station after 3 seconds, early release
周期性获取小区信息的时间间隔，单位毫秒。获取小区信息会增加部分功耗。写0或者不写则是关闭功能
The time interval for periodically obtaining cell information, in milliseconds. Acquiring cell information increases some of the power consumption. To write 0 or not to write is to turn off the function
固件使用
Firmware usage
固定使用
Fixed use
如需要真正的唯一ID, 使用
If you need a truly unique ID, use
定期轮训式
Regular rotation training
小区重选信号差值门限,需要飞行模式设置
Cell reselection signal difference threshold, flight mode setting required
已注册
Registered
已注册,仅
Registered, only
已注册,漫游
Registered, Roaming
已注册,漫游,仅
Registered, Roaming, Only
已注册,紧急服务
Registered, Emergency Services
已注册,非主要服务
Registered, non-primary service
已注册,非主要服务,漫游
Registered, Non Primary Service, Roaming
已适配
Adapted
常量
Constant
常量|类型|解释
constant | type | explanation
开关 true开启 false 关闭
Switch true on false off
开启,true开启, false关闭
On, true on, false off
开启,true开启, false关闭, nil不设置
On, true on, false off, nil not set
开启测试模式，false关闭
Test mode on, false off
开启统计, 默认也是开启的
Enable statistics, which is also enabled by default.
开启网络静态优化
Turn on network static optimization
当前CSQ值, 若失败返回0. 范围 0 - 31, 越大越好
The current CSQ value, if failure returns 0. Range 0 - 31, the larger the better
当前eci值,若失败返回
current eci value. if the eci value fails, return
当前eci值,若失败返回-1. 如果尚未注册到网络,会返回
the current eci value. if it fails, it returns -1. if it has not been registered to the network, it returns
当前enbid值,若失败返回
The current enbid value, which is returned if it fails.
当前rsrp值,若失败返回0. 取值范围: -44 ~ -140 ，值越大越好
The current rsrp value. If the rsrp value fails, return 0. Value range: -44~-140. The larger the value, the better.
当前rsrq值,若失败返回0.  取值范围: -3 ~ -19.5 ，值越大越好
The current rsrq value. If it fails, return 0. Value range: -3 to -19.5. The larger the value, the better.
当前rssi值,若失败返回0. 范围 0 到 -114, 越小越好
The current rssi value. If it fails, it returns 0. The range is 0 to -114, the smaller the better.
当前sim卡是否准备好，一般返回false就是没卡
Whether the current sim card is ready or not, generally returning false means no card
当前sim卡槽编号,若失败返回
current sim slot number, return if failure
当前snq值,若失败返回0.范围 0 - 30, 越大越好
the current snq value, if the failure returns 0. range 0 - 30, the larger the better
当前开关状态
Current switch status
当前是开启的，false 当前是关闭的
is currently on, false is currently off
当前的IMEI值,若失败返回
The current IMEI value, if failed to return
当前的IMSI值,若失败返回
The current IMSI value, if failure returns
当前的MUID值,若失败返回
Current MUID value, returned if failure
当前的SN值,若失败返回nil. 注意, SN可能包含不可见字符
The current SN value, which returns nil on failure. Note that SN may contain invisible characters
当前网络状态
Current Network Status
当前网络状态,0:网络未注册;1:网络已注册;2:正在搜网中;3:网络注册被拒绝
Current network status, 0: the network is not registered; 1: the network is registered; 2: searching the network; 3: network registration rejected
当无PIN操作时，返回SIM卡是否准备好，有PIN操作时，返回是否成功
When there is no PIN operation, return whether the SIM card is ready, and when there is a PIN operation, return whether it is successful
成功true 失败
success true failure
成功返回true，失败放回
Return true on success, return true on failure
打开测试模式，并且用虚拟串口发送结果
Open test mode and send results with virtual serial port
提醒, 自动识别是会增加时间的
Reminder, automatic recognition will increase time
操作码 0删除优先的频点，1设置优先频点，2锁定小区，3解锁小区
Operation code 0 deletes the priority frequency point, 1 sets the priority frequency point, 2 locks the cell, 3 unlocks the cell
数据量流量处理
Data volume traffic processing
数量
Quantity
新的APN,不填就是获取APN, 填了就是设置APN, 是否支持设置取决于底层实现
New APN, do not fill in is to obtain APN, fill in is to set APN, whether to support setting depends on the underlying implementation
新的APN的password,如果APN不是空,那必须填写,如果没有留个空字符串""。如果APN是空的，那可以
The password of the new APN. If the APN is not empty, it must be filled in. If there is no empty string "". If the APN is empty, then you can
新的APN的username,如果APN不是空,那必须填写,如果没有留个空字符串""。如果APN是空的，那可以
The username of the new APN. If the APN is not empty, it must be filled in. If there is no empty string "". If the APN is empty, then you can
无
None
无返回值
No return value
是否优先用SIM0，只有SIM卡编号写2自适应才有用！！！。true优先用SIM0，false则由具体平台决定，支持双卡双待SIM0优先，不支持的是上一次检测到的优先，默认是false，必须在开机就配置，否则就无效了
Whether to use SIM0 first, only SIM card number write 2 adaptive is useful!!!. True gives priority to SIM0,false is determined by the specific platform, supports dual-card dual-standby SIM0 priority, does not support the last detected priority, the default is false, must be configured at boot, otherwise it is invalid
是否删除APN,true是,其他都否,只有参数3新的APN不是string的时候才有效果
Whether to delete APN,true yes, others no, only when parameter 3 new APN is not string
是否启用数据传输优化，true启用，false关闭，留空为false，开启后必须等到TCP数据ACK或者超时失败，或者socket CONNECT完成（无论成功或者失败）才允许RRC提前释放，可能会增加功耗。本参数于2024年8月12日启用
Whether to enable data transmission optimization, true to enable, false to close, and leave blank to false. After opening, RRC must wait until TCP data ACK or timeout fails, or socket CONNECT is completed (whether successful or failed) before allowing RRC to be released in advance, which may increase power consumption. This parameter will be activated on August 12, 2024
是否成功
Success or not
是否设置为飞行模式,true为设置, false为退出,可选
Whether to set to flight mode, true to set, false to exit, optional
是否默认开启IPV6功能，必须在LTE网络连接前就设置好
Whether the IPV6 function is enabled by default must be set before LTE network connection
更换pin时操作的pin码，或者验证操作的pin码，或者解锁pin码时的PUK，4~8字节
Change the pin code of the operation when pin, or verify the pin code of the operation, or unlock the PUK when pin code, 4~8 bytes
更换PIN码操作
Change PIN Operation
更换pin码操作时的新的pin码，解锁pin码时的新PIN，4~8字节
New pin code when changing pin code operation, new PIN when unlocking pin code, 4~8 bytes
服务小区的
Serving cell
服务小区的下行
Downlink of the serving cell
未注册
Not registered
未知
Unknown
本API于 2023.7.9 新增
This API was added on 2023.7.9
本API于 2024.9.12 新增
This API was added on 2024.9.12
本库有专属demo，[点此链接查看mobile的demo例子
This library has its own demo,[click this link to view the demo example of mobile
本页文档由[这个文件](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/../components/mobile/luat_lib_mobile.c)自动生成。如有错误，请提交issue或帮忙修改后pr，谢谢
This page document is automatically generated by [this file](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/../components/mobile/luat_lib_mobile.c). If there is any error, please submit issue or help modify pr, thank you
检测当前SIM卡是否准备好，对SIM卡的PIN码做相关操作
Check whether the current SIM card is ready and perform relevant operations on the PIN code of the SIM card.
模式，0为EPS ONLY 2为混合，遇到IMSI detach脱网问题，设置为0，注意设置为EPS ONLY时会取消短信功能
Mode, 0 is EPS ONLY and 2 is mixed. If IMSI detach is out of the network, set it to 0. Note that when it is set to EPS ONLY, the SMS function will be canceled.
模式中的T3324时间,单位
T3324 time in mode, units
模式开关,0关,1开
Mode switch, 0 off, 1 on
正在搜索中
Searching
正在搜网中
searching the net
每次搜索小区时最大搜索时间，单位秒。不要超过8秒
The maximum search time for each cell search, in seconds. Do not exceed 8 seconds.
注册被拒绝
Registration Rejected
注意, 4G模块的CSQ值仅供参考, rsrp/rsrq才是真正的信号强度指标
Note that the CSQ value of 4G module is for reference only, rsrp/rsrq is the real signal strength indicator
注意, 出厂未必有写
Note that the factory may not have written
注意, 开启ipv6后, 开机联网会慢2~3秒
Note that after ipv6 is turned on, the startup network will be 2~3 seconds slower.
注意: 从2023.06.20开始, 需要主动请求一次reqCellInfo才会有基站数据
Note: Starting from 2023.06.20, you need to actively request a reqCellInfo to have base station data.
测试开关和配置
Test switches and configurations
测试数据输入
Test data input
清空上下行流量累计值
Clear the cumulative value of uplink and downlink traffic
清空上行流量累计值，true清空，其他忽略
Clear the cumulative value of upstream traffic, true, and ignore others.
清空下行流量累计值，true清空，其他忽略
Clear the cumulative value of downlink traffic, true, and ignore others.
清空统计值
Empty Statistics
漫游,且已注册
Roaming and Registered
激活APN时,如果需要username和password,就要写鉴权协议类型,1~3,默认3,代表1和2都尝试一下。不需要鉴权的写
When activating APN, if you need to username and password, you must write the authentication protocol type, 1~3, default 3, which means 1 and 2 are both tried. Write without authentication
激活APN时的IP TYPE,1=IPV4 2=IPV6 3=IPV4V6,默认是
IP TYPE when APN is activated, 1 = IPV4 2 = IPV6 3 = IPV4V6, default is
状态描述
Status Description
用户从串口获取的数据，注意，当获取完所有数据后，需要再传一个nil来作为传输结束
The data obtained by the user from the serial port, note that after all the data is obtained, another nil needs to be sent as the end of the transmission.
码操作类型，只能是mobile.PIN_XXXX，不操作就留空
Code operation type, can only be mobile.PIN_XXXX, no operation is left blank
示例
Example
示例输出
Sample output
示例输出(原始数据是table, 下面是json格式化后的内容
Example output (the original data is table, and the following is the json formatted content
移动公网卡设置APN为cmiot,一般不用设置
The APN of the mobile public network card is set to cmiot, which is generally not required.
简单演示
Simple Demo
编号,默认0. 在支持双卡的模块上才会出现0或1的情况
Number, default 0.0 or 1 will only appear on modules that support dual cards
网络切换以信号质量优先,需要飞行模式设置,0不开,1开启,2开启并加速切换,功耗会增加
Network switching gives priority to signal quality, flight mode setting is required, 0 is not on, 1 is on, 2 is on and the switching is accelerated, power consumption will increase
网络已注册
Network Registered
网络未注册
Network not registered
网络注册被拒绝
Network registration denied
网络特殊配置
Network Special Configuration
网络特殊配置，针对不同平台有不同的配置，谨慎使用，目前只有
Special network configuration, different configurations for different platforms, careful use, currently only
网络状态未知
Network status unknown
网络遇到严重故障时尝试自动恢复，和飞行模式/SIM卡切换冲突，true开启，false关闭，开始状态是false，留空则不做改变
When the network encounters a serious failure, it tries to recover automatically, which conflicts with flight mode/SIM card switching. true is on, false is off, the starting state is false, and no change is made if it is left blank.
网络遇到严重故障时尝试自动恢复，和飞行模式/SIM卡切换冲突，true开启，false关闭，留空时，如果设置了时间则自动开启。原厂优化过协议栈后不需要了。本参数废弃
When the network encounters a serious failure, it tries to recover automatically, which conflicts with the flight mode/SIM card switching. true is turned on, false is turned off, and when it is left blank, it will be turned on automatically if the time is set. The original factory does not need it after optimizing the protocol stack. This parameter is obsolete
网络遇到严重故障时尝试自动恢复，和飞行模式/SIM卡切换冲突，true开启，false关闭，留空时，如果设置了时间则自动开启。本参数于2023年9月14日已废弃
When the network encounters a serious failure, it tries to recover automatically, which conflicts with the flight mode/SIM card switching. true is turned on, false is turned off, and when it is left blank, it will be turned on automatically if the time is set. This parameter has been abandoned on September 14, 2023
网络静态模式优化,需要飞行模式设置
Network static mode optimization, flight mode setting required
自动识别SIM0, SIM1, 且SIM0优先
Automatically identify SIM0, SIM1, and SIM0 takes precedence
自动识别SIM0, SIM1, 优先级看具体平台
Automatic identification SIM0, SIM1, priority depends on the specific platform
自动释放时间，等同于Air724的AT+RTIME，单位秒，写0或者不写则是停用，不要超过20秒，没有意义
The automatic release time is equivalent to the AT RTIME of Air724, in seconds. If you write 0 or not, it is disabled. It should not exceed 20 seconds. It is meaningless.
获取
Get
获取rsrp,参考信号接收功率
Get rsrp, reference signal received power
获取rsrq,参考信号发送功率
Get rsrq, reference signal transmit power
获取snr,信噪比
obtain snr, signal-to-noise ratio
获取上下行流量累计值
Obtain the cumulative value of uplink and downlink traffic
获取到的默认APN值,失败返回
The default APN value obtained. If the APN fails, the value is returned.
获取基站信息
Obtain base station information
获取当前SIM卡槽,或者切换卡槽
Get the current SIM card slot, or switch card slots
获取当前使用/支持的
Gets the currently used/supported
获取当前开关状态
Get the current switch state
获取当前服务小区更详细的信息
Get more detailed information about the current serving cell
获取当前服务小区的
Get the current serving cell
获取当前服务小区的TAC或者
Obtain the TAC of the current serving cell or
获取或设置
Gets or sets
获取或设置APN，设置APN必须在入网前就设置好，比如在SIM卡识别完成前就设置好
To obtain or set the APN, the APN must be set before entering the network, for example, before the SIM card identification is completed.
获取手机卡号，注意，只有写入了手机号才能读出，因此有可能读出来是空的
Obtain the mobile phone card number. Note that it can only be read out if the mobile phone number is written, so it may be empty.
获取机制信息
Obtain mechanism information
获取网络状态
Get Network Status
蜂窝网络
Cellular Network
蜂窝网络模块的usb以太网卡控制，bit0开关1,开0关，bit1模式1NAT,0独立IP，bit2协议1ECM,0RNDIS，飞行模式里设置
Usb Ethernet card control of cellular network module, bit0 switch 1, on 0 off, bit1 mode 1NAT,0 independent IP,bit2 protocol 1ECM,0RNDIS, set in flight mode
蜂窝网络模块的usb以太网卡控制，bit0开关1,开0关，bit1模式1NAT,0独立IP(在usb以太网卡开启前可以修改，开启过就不行)，bit2协议1ECM,0RNDIS，飞行模式里设置
usb Ethernet card control of cellular network module, bit0 switch 1, on 0 off, bit1 mode 1NAT,0 independent IP (can be modified before usb Ethernet card is turned on, but not after it is turned on),bit2 protocol 1ECM,0RNDIS, set in flight mode
蜂窝网络模块的usb以太网卡控制，bit0开关1,开0关，bit1模式1NAT,0独立IP(目前强制为1)，bit2协议1ECM,0RNDIS，飞行模式里设置
Usb Ethernet card control of cellular network module, bit0 switch 1, on 0 off, bit1 mode 1NAT,0 independent IP (currently mandatory to 1),bit2 protocol 1ECM,0RNDIS, set in flight mode
解锁PIN码
Unlock PIN
解锁小区
Unlock cell
订阅
Subscription
设置RRC自动释放时间间隔，当开启时后，遇到极弱信号+频繁数据操作可能会引起网络严重故障，因此需要额外设置自动重启协议栈
Set the RRC automatic release time interval. When the RRC is enabled, frequent data operations may cause serious network failures when extremely weak signals are encountered. Therefore, additional automatic restart protocol stack settings are required.
设置SIM写入次数的统计
Set statistics for SIM writes
设置一些辅助周期性或者自动功能，目前支持SIM卡暂时脱离后恢复，周期性获取小区信息，网络遇到严重故障时尝试自动恢复
Set up some auxiliary periodic or automatic functions. Currently, it supports recovery after the SIM card is temporarily separated, periodically obtains cell information, and tries to recover automatically when the network encounters serious faults.
设置使用的
Set
设置使用的band一共4个，为
Set a total of 4 band to use,
设置定时检测网络是否正常并且在检测到长时间无网时通过重启协议栈来恢复，无网恢复时长，单位ms，建议60000以上，为网络搜索网络保留足够的时间，留空则不做更改
Set timing to check whether the network is normal and recover by restarting the protocol stack when no network is detected for a long time. The recovery time of no network is in ms. It is recommended to be more than 60000. Reserve enough time for network search. Leave it blank and make no change.
读取统计值,异步, 需要通过系统消息SIM_IND获取
Read statistical values, asynchronous, need to be obtained through the system message SIM_IND.
超时时长,单位秒,默认15. 最少5, 最高
Timeout duration, in seconds, default 15. Minimum 5, maximum
跳paging,需要飞行模式设置,谨慎使用,0是不设置,1~7增大或减小DrxCycle周期倍数,1:1/8倍 2:1/4倍 3:1/2倍 4:2倍 5:4倍 6:8倍 7:16倍,8~12配置固定的DrxCycle周期,仅当该周期大于网络分配的DrxCycle周期时该配置才会生效
Paging, flight mode setting is required, use it carefully, 0 is not set, 1~7 increases or decreases the DrxCycle cycle multiple, 1:1/8 times 2:1/4 times 3:1/2 times 4:2 times 5:4 times 6:8 times 7:16 times, 8~12 is configured with a fixed DrxCycle cycle, this configuration will only take effect if the period is greater than the network-assigned DrxCycle period
输入pin码验证
Enter pin code verification
输入使用的
Enter the used
输出
Output
输出当前使用的band，band号放在buff内
Output the currently used band, and put the band number in buff
返回值
Return Value
返回值类型|解释
return value type | explanation
进出飞行模式
In and out of flight mode
配置值
Configuration Value
配置值,根据具体配置的item决定
configuration value, determined according to the specific configured item
配置基站同步时间开关，默认开启
Configure the base station synchronization time switch and turn it on by default
配置小区重选信号差值门限，不能大于15dbm，必须在飞行模式下才能用
Configure the cell reselection signal difference threshold, which cannot be greater than 15dbm and can only be used in flight mode.
配置项目，看
configuration project, see
重启LTE协议栈
Restart the LTE protocol stack
重启协议栈
Restart the protocol stack
针对不同平台有不同的配置，谨慎使用，目前只有EC618/EC718系列
There are different configurations for different platforms and use them with caution. Currently, only EC618/EC718 series
锁定/解锁小区，仅用于外场测试，没接触过的，或者生产环境中请勿使用
Lock/unlock the cell, only for field testing, not touched, or do not use in the production environment
锁定小区
Locked cell
验证PIN码操作
Verify PIN operation
默认0，如果要用非默认APN来激活，必须
The default value is 0. If you want to activate with a non-default APN, you must
默认支持，false当前支持的，默认是false，当前是预留功能，不要写
Default support, false currently supported, default is false, current is reserved function, do not write