把zbuff数据从指针开始，全发出去
Start the zbuff data from the pointer and send it all out.
把zbuff数据从指针开始，全发出去,并读取数据
Start zbuff data from the pointer, send it all out, and read the data
半双工
half duplex
本次传输是否正确启动，true，启动，false，有错误无法启动。传输完成会发布消息transfer_done_topic和boolean型结果
Whether this transmission is started correctly, true, start, false, and cannot be started with errors. Message transfer_done_topic and boolean results are published when the transfer is complete
本库还有视频教程，[点此链接查看
There are also video tutorials in this library, [click this link to view
本库有专属demo，[点此链接查看spi的demo例子
This library has its own demo,[click this link to view the demo example of spi
本页文档由[这个文件](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/modules/luat_lib_spi.c)自动生成。如有错误，请提交issue或帮忙修改后pr，谢谢
This page document is automatically generated by [this file](https://gitee.com/openLuat/LuatOS/tree/master/luat/modules/luat_lib_spi.c). If there is any error, please submit issue or help modify pr, thank you
波特率,默认
baud rate, default
参数
Parameters
操作库
Operation Library
常量
Constant
常量|类型|解释
constant | type | explanation
成功返回0,否则返回其他值
Returns 0 on success, otherwise returns another value
初始化
Initialization
初始化软件
Initialize software
传入值类型|解释
Incoming Value Type | Explanation
传输数据长度，特别说明 如果为半双工，先发后收，比如spi flash操作这种，则长度=发送字节+接收字节，注意上面发送和接收buff都要留足够的数据，后续接收数据处理需要跳过发送数据长度字节
The length of the transmitted data, especially if it is half duplex, send before receive, such as spi flash operation, then the length = send byte receive byte, note that the above send and receive buff should leave enough data, subsequent receive data processing needs to skip the send data length byte
传输完成后回调的
The callback after the transfer is complete
传输SPI数据
Transferring SPI Data
传输SPI数据(对象方式
Transfer SPI Data (Object Way
创建一个初值全为0x33的内存区域
Create a memory area with all initial values of 0x 33
从机模式
slave mode
大端模式
Big Endian Mode
大小端, 默认spi.MSB, 可选
Size side, default spi.MSB, optional
大小端，默认spi.MSB, 可选
Size side, default spi.MSB, optional
待发送的数据，如果为nil，则只接收数据，由于用的非阻塞模型，为保证动态数据的有效性，只能使用zbuff，发送的数据从
The data to be sent, if nil, only receives the data, because of the non-blocking model, in order to ensure the validity of the dynamic data, can only use zbuff, the data sent from.
待发送的数据，如果为zbuff数据，则会从对象所处的指针处开始读
The data to be sent. If it is zbuff data, it will be read from the pointer where the object is located.
读取成功返回字符串,否则返回
Read successfully returns the string, otherwise it returns
发送
Send
发送123,并读取数据
Send 123 and read data
发送结果
Send Results
发送SPI数据
Send SPI Data
发送SPI数据(对象方式
Send SPI Data (Object Way
返回值
Return Value
返回值类型|解释
return value type | explanation
非阻塞方式硬件SPI传输SPI数据，目的为了提高核心利用率。API直接返回是否启动传输，传输完成后通过topic回调，本API适合硬件SPI传输大量数据传输，外设功能（LCD SPI，W5500 SPI之类的）占据的SPI和软件SPI不能用，少量数据传输建议使用传统阻塞型
The non-blocking hardware SPI transfers SPI data in order to improve core utilization. The API directly returns whether to start the transmission or not. After the transmission is completed, the API is suitable for hardware SPI to transmit a large amount of data. SPI and software SPI occupied by peripheral functions (LCD SPI,W5500 SPI, etc.) cannot be used. Traditional blocking type is recommended for a small amount of data transmission.
高速SPI0，目前105专用
High-speed SPI0, currently 105 dedicated
工作模式, 全双工1, 半双工0, 默认全双工
Operating mode, full duplex 1, half duplex 0, default full duplex
工作模式，全双工1，半双工0，默认半双工
Operating mode, full duplex 1, half duplex 0, default half duplex
关闭指定的
Close the specified
关闭指定的SPI(对象方式
Close the specified SPI (object way
号,例如
No., for example
号(例如0)或软件SPI对象
number (e. g. 0) or software SPI object
或者spi_id，注意，如果是spi_device，需要手动在传输完成后拉高
Or spi_id, note that if it is spi_device, you need to manually pull it up after the transmission is completed.
接收4字节数据
Receive 4 bytes of data
接收数据，如果为nil，则只发送数据，由于用的非阻塞模型，为保证动态数据的有效性，只能使用zbuff，接收的数据从zbuff.addr开始存储
Receive data, if it is nil, only send data, due to the non-blocking model, in order to ensure the validity of dynamic data, only zbuff can be used, and the received data is stored from zbuff.addr.
接收指定长度的SPI数据
Receives SPI data of a specified length
接收指定长度的SPI数据(对象方式
Receives SPI data of a specified length (object method
可选。待发送数据的长度，默认为data长度
Optional. The length of the data to be sent. The default value is the length of data.
可选。读取数据的长度，默认为
Optional. The length of the read data. The default value is
例子
Examples
默认0,可选
Default 0, optional
默认0，可选
Default 0, optional
片选脚,在w600不可用请填
Foot selection, not available in w600, please fill in
全双工
Full Duplex
软件SPI对象|可当作SPI的id使用
Software SPI object | can be used as the ID of the SPI
设置并启用
Set up and enable
设置并启用软件
Set up and enable the software
设置并启用SPI(对象方式
Set up and enable SPI (object way
数据宽度,默认
Data width, default
数据宽度，默认
Data width, default
数据长度
Data length
小端模式
Little Endian Mode
已适配
Adapted
引脚编号
Pin number
引脚编号，传入nil意为Lua控制cs脚
Pin number, incoming nil means Lua controls cs pin
主从设置, 默认主1, 可选从机0. 通常只支持主机模式
Master-slave setting, default master 1, optional slave 0. Generally, only host mode is supported
主从设置，默认主1, 可选从机0. 通常只支持主机模式
Master-slave setting, default master 1, optional slave 0. Generally, only host mode is supported
主机模式
Host Mode