本身并不依赖具体的rtos, 所以文件系统也有自己的一套API, 称为
It does not rely on specific rtos, so the file system also has its own set of API, called
部分模块支持, 可读写, 占用sys内存, 不消耗flash写入寿命, 但需要注意删除文件
Some modules support, can read and write, occupy sys memory, do not consume flash write life, but need to pay attention to delete files
常见的文件系统布局
Common file system layouts
打开并准备写入一个文件, 且截断为0字节
Open and prepare to write a file with 0 bytes truncated
的文件系统
The file system
的VFS支持任何第三方文件系统, 无论是只读还是可读写, 实现相关操作函数即可对接
The VFS supports any third-party file system, whether read-only or read-write, and can be docked by implementing relevant operation functions.
读取刷机时选择的资源文件
The resource file selected when reading the machine.
更多示例, 参考
For more examples, refer
挂载sd卡后会出现的路径, 某些平台上有固定的sd卡/tf卡路径
The path that will appear after the sd card is mounted. There are fixed sd card/tf card paths on some platforms.
可读写
Can read and write
可读写, 存放于内存中
Can read and write, stored in memory
可读写, 读写SD卡/TF卡的开源Fat32文件系统
Read and write, read and write SD card/TF card open source Fat32 file system
可读写, 全称
Read and write, full name
可读写, Linux的posix标准接口, LuatOS-SoC对其有封装
Can read and write, Linux posix standard interface, LuatOS-SoC have encapsulation for it
可读写的简单描述
A simple description of read-write
内存文件系统,可读写. 2023-01-12之后的固件支持
Memory file system, can read and write. firmware support after 2023-01-12
内置多种文件系统格式
Built-in multiple file system formats
片上可读(也许可写)的一段flash, 也可能是虚拟文件系统
A readable (perhaps writable) piece of flash on the chip, or a virtual file system.
通常是挂载spi flash的路径, 通常可以自定义
usually the path to mount the spi flash. you can customize
通过luatools/luatide刷机时,所有文件都会放到这个目录下, 包括脚本和资源文件
When you swipe through luatools/luatide, all files are placed in this directory, including scripts and resource files.
文件系统类型
File System Type
与市面上众多的虚拟文件系统API类似, VFS提供一套读写文件的抽象API, 隔离与实际硬件环境的差异
Similar to many virtual file system APIs on the market, VFS provides a set of abstract APIs for reading and writing files to isolate differences from the actual hardware environment.
在大部分平台上, 刷机进设备的脚本和资源文件, 都在 `/luadb` 目录下, 以单一文件夹存在
On most platforms, scripts and resource files that are flushed into the device are in the `/luadb` directory and exist in a single folder.
只读
Read Only
只读, 标准romfs格式
Read-only, standard romfs format
只读, 基于 TLD(Tag-Len-Data) 格式组织的文件系统,文件名最长21字节
Read-only, file system organized based on the TLD(Tag-Len-Data) format with up to 21 bytes of file name
