下列操作所需要的文件, 请到 [uc6228 for LuatOS](https://github.com/wendal/luatos-lib-uc6228) 的pkg目录下载
The files required for the following operations are downloaded from the pkg directory of [uc6228 for LuatOS](https://github.com/wendal/luatos-lib-uc6228)
以10ms的频率, 连续往模块的RX脚发送 `M!T` 指令, 3个字节, 持续发送
At a frequency of 10ms, continuously send 'M! to the RX pin of the module! T' instruction, 3 bytes, send continuously
使用 `xmodem` 协议, 发送 固件文件
Send firmware file using 'xmodem' protocol
例子
Examples
保持备电不掉可保持星历, 备电也掉电后, 星历是会丢失的, 需要重新注入
Keeping the standby power supply without dropping can keep the ephemeris. After the standby power supply is also powered off, the ephemeris will be lost and needs to be injected again.
停止发送 `M!T`, 使用 `xmodem` 协议, 发送 bootloader文件
Stop sending 'M! T', use 'xmodem' protocol, send bootloader file
内置固件仅支持GPS+北斗+QZSS, 不支持其他导航星座
The built-in firmware only supports GPS Beidou QZSS, and does not support other navigation constellations
内置固件仅支持北斗编号37及以下的卫星
The built-in firmware only supports satellites with Beidou number 37 and below
内置固件是ROM版, 配置信息无法存盘
Built-in firmware is ROM version, configuration information cannot be saved
内置的GNSS芯片是 芯与物
The built-in GNSS chip is the core and object
内置的固件是ROM版, 无法存盘配置信息, 也无法更新固件, 但支持"加载固件"功能
The built-in firmware is ROM version, which cannot save configuration information or update firmware, but supports "load firmware" function
写入方式
Write Method
切换到GPS+北斗
Switch to GPS Beidou
切换到单
Switch to Single
切换到单北斗
Switch to single Beidou
切换导航星座
Switch Navigation Constellation
切换导航星座会软重启模块, NMEA配置会恢复默认值, 非模式NMEA语句需要再次开启
Switching the navigation constellation will soft restart the module, the NMEA configuration will restore the default value, and the non-mode NMEA statement needs to be opened again.
初版Air510U开发板, PPS电阻过大, 导致定位成功后PPS灯依然不亮
In the first version of the Air510U development board, the PPS resistance is too large, resulting in the PPS lamp still not bright after successful positioning.
加载固件: GPS, 北斗二号, 北斗三号
Loading firmware: GPS, Beidou II, Beidou III
北斗星历
The Big Dipper Calendar
单北斗星历
Single Big Dipper Ephemeris
单北斗星历会比GPS+北斗星历小, 这是正常的, 北斗星历是GPS+北斗的子集
The single Big Dipper ephemeris will be smaller than the GPS Big Dipper ephemeris, which is normal. The Big Dipper ephemeris is a subset of GPS Beidou
参数
Parameters
固件加载(高级话题
Firmware Loading (Advanced Topics
固件加载操作流程
Firmware Loading Operation Flow
固件自带驱动
Firmware comes with driver
在设备运行中, 也会持续从卫星接收星历, 从而自动延长星历有效期
The ephemeris is also continuously received from the satellite while the device is in operation, thereby automatically extending the ephemeris validity period
地址
Address
将模块彻底断电后重新上电, 模块回复 `YC`, 然后每2秒输出一次 `C`, 代表进入加载模式成功, 否则请断电再上电
After the module is completely powered off, the module will be powered on again, and the module will return to 'YC', and then output 'C' every 2 seconds, which means that the loading mode is successfully entered. Otherwise, please power off and power on again.
已知问题
Known issues
库
Library
开发板的天线引脚不带馈电, 如需使用有源天线, 需要从VDD_REF引脚接电容引到天线脚
The antenna pin of the development board does not have feed. If you need to use an active antenna, you need to connect the capacitor from the VDD_REF pin to the antenna pin.
待发送完成后, 模块会重启, 进入固件运行模式, 根据固件文件的不同, 切换到正确的波特率, 通常是
After the sending is completed, the module will restart and enter the firmware operation mode. According to the different firmware files, switch to the correct baud rate, usually
提醒
Reminder
支持的最高波特率是115200, 最低
The highest baud rate supported is 115200, the lowest
支持的导航星座
Supported navigation constellations
数据位8, 停止位1, 无校验
Data bit 8, stop bit 1, no check
星历信息
Ephemeris information
星历本身是二进制文件(RTCM格式), 直接往模块的UART RXD口写入即可, 可分段(不小于256字节)写入, 也可一次性写入
Ephemeris itself is a binary file (RTCM format), which can be written directly to the UART RXD port of the module. It can be written in segments (not less than 256 bytes) or once.
星历本身自带校验, 但写入无返回值
The ephemeris itself comes with verification, but there is no return value for writing.
星座之间可以组合, 如GPS+北斗=11, 单北斗是
Constellations can be combined, such as GPS Beidou = 11, single Beidou is
星座编号: GPS=1, 北斗
Constellation number: GPS = 1, Beidou
更新周期均为10分钟一次, 星历有效期: GPS为4小时, 北斗为1小时
Update cycle is 10 minutes once, ephemeris validity: GPS is 4 hours, Beidou is 1 hour
根据选取的bootloader文件, 例如 bl921600 代表波特率 921600, 切换串口波特率
Switch the serial port baud rate according to the selected bootloader file, for example, the bl921600 represents baud rate 921600
此时, 模块应该会输出NMEA语句, 代表模块正确运行了
At this point, the module should output an NMEA statement, representing that the module is running correctly.
电平是3.3V的
The level is 3.3V
硬件资料
Hardware Data
请参考
Please refer
资料网站
Information website
资料链接
Data Link
软件信息
Software Information
这时候应该能连续收到 `C` 字符, 代表bootloader启动完成, 准备接收固件
At this time, the' C' character should be continuously received, which means that the bootloader startup is complete and the firmware is ready to be received.
适配情况
Adaptation
默认固件: GPS, 北斗二号
Default firmware: GPS, Beidou II
默认波特率是
The default baud rate is