电源
Power
概述
Overview
内置蓝牙，支持蓝牙5.2，用于和手机之间直接传输数据。外挂4GModem芯片，支持VoLTE高清通话，可独立工作，跑步健身手机不在身边也不漏收消息，并支持蓝牙和4G自动切换，当连接手机后自动断开4G达到省电目的，断开蓝牙后可在10秒内连接4G网络，不错过一条重要消息。外挂双频GNSS芯片支持GPS，北斗，伽利略，格洛纳斯多系统定位，准确记录户外运动路径。
Built-in Bluetooth, support for Bluetooth 5.2, used to directly transmit data between mobile phones. The plug-in 4GModem chip supports VoLTE high-definition calls, can work independently, does not miss messages when the running fitness mobile phone is not around, and supports automatic switching between Bluetooth and 4G. When the mobile phone is connected, 4G can be automatically disconnected to save electricity. After disconnecting Bluetooth, 4G network can be connected within 10 seconds, thus not missing an important message. The plug-in dual-frequency GNSS chip supports GPS, Beidou, Galileo, Glonass multi-system positioning, and accurately records the outdoor movement path.
全部功能采用LuatOS开发，界面为lvgl提供底层渲染，用户可通过脚本快速嵌入自己的应用逻辑。全部通信协议开源，并提供数据接口，可以对获得的数据进行自由处理。
All functions are developed by LuatOS, and the interface provides low-level rendering for lvgl. Users can quickly embed their own application logic through scripts. All communication protocols are open source and provide data interface, which can freely process the obtained data.
软件
Software
是一颗三核异构芯片，包含一颗高性能ARM M33大核，最高频率240M，可处理负责应用；一颗ARM M0低功耗小核，最高48M，能效比可达11.8uA/MHz @3.3V负责设备休眠状态下的数据处理，实现更长续航；一颗专用DSP，支持2.5D加速和TinyML加速，图像加速能力可实现480*480分辨率下60fps的渲染速度，TinyML可以实现运动姿态的识别，更低的功耗更准确的识别。芯片内置2Msram，三个核心共享；256K的低功耗不掉电ram，可在待机模式下保持数据；8Mpsram，为复杂应用提供大内存支持。内置4Mflash，支持xip模式。板载16Mflash采用QSPI连接，可储存资源文件和设备数据。
It is a three-core heterogeneous chip, including a high-performance ARM M33 core with a maximum frequency of 240M, which can handle responsible applications. An ARM M0 low-power small core with a maximum of 48M and an energy efficiency ratio of 11.8uA/MHz @ 3.3V is responsible for data processing in the dormant state of the device and realizes longer endurance. A dedicated DSP supports 2.5D acceleration and TinyML acceleration, image acceleration capability can achieve 60fps rendering speed at 480*480 resolution, TinyML can realize motion gesture recognition, lower power consumption and more accurate recognition. The chip has a built-in 2Msram, shared by three cores; 256K low-power non-power-down ram, which can maintain data in standby mode; 8 Mpram, which provides large memory support for complex applications. Built-in 4Mflash, support xip mode. The onboard 16Mflash uses QSPI connection to store resource files and device data.
是一款全开源的智能手表，主控采用Air112芯片+4GModem+GPS，配备1.4英寸高清大屏，支持多功能NFC、心率追踪、睡眠监测、运动模式识别等功能，可脱离手机独立接打电话。
It is a fully open source smart watch. The main control uses Air112 chip 4GModem GPS and is equipped with a 1.4-inch high-definition large screen. It supports multi-function NFC, heart rate tracking, sleep monitoring, motion pattern recognition and other functions. It can receive and make calls independently from the mobile phone.
无线
Wireless
选用300mah电池，待机可达15天以上，配备10W快充，10分钟即可充满，不再面临电量焦虑。
Use 300mah battery, standby for more than 15 days, equipped with 10W fast charging, 10 minutes can be fully charged, no longer face power anxiety.
主控
Master Control